# 3. The thinking framework (Draft)

After reading a bunch of articles from chapter 2. and the sources listed in chapter 6. the following is a try to write down a model of society:&#x20;

_The societies of today using digital services. A digital service is realizing multiple functions. A function takes an amount of time to transform a state into another distinct state. The states having different complexity and there is differnt amount of changes to be done to reach them. The transformation is driven by one or more causes. Typicall or reoccuring causes are called „laws“. A function is an inherent part of a working system (digital service)._

_A functions amount of time and amount of changes are dependent to the properties of communciation technology used in this system._

_A functions causes are dependent to properties of human needs (one human), properties of human relationship interactions (two humans), properties of human group interactions and properties of our society system (Capitalism). The last four represent different compelxity levels of human action driven causes. They are divided because on each level synergies and emergent effects are occuring that can not be explained from the single human actions._

_A functions causes are also dependent to the synergias and emergent effects that are formed by the decribed properties._

_Function exists also themselves the dont need to be integrated into a digital service. For example long distance communicating was also possible with letters and driven by the properties of human needs: need for inforamtion and relationships as causes._

_To say it in other words: Digital services integrate this functions by modify them by changing their amount of time and amount of changes, or some of the causes and or extend them. To the modification also counts „rechanneling“ of communication because it changes amount of time and amount of changes. Also some society functions are discarded by digital services or newly created, if the service is still otherwise ankered in society proceesses._

_To integrate in our society digital services where bootstraped a specific time. At this moment society was in a specific economic, social, legal, mental, physical, political, communicative state. These states lead to different chellanges on scaling._

_The combination of functions and historical scaling challanges driven the development of a buisness model._

_Since the digital services create discard or alter society functions their dunctions have a feedback on the individum, the relationsship, the group and the society system and alter their properties. On the other direction companies of digital services using the engagement of the individum, the relationsship, the group and the society system in their digital services to alter the functions of the service to their needs. (Often optimizing them for revenue.)_

_If we let the digital service unaltered we can extrapolate trends to the specific economic, social, legal, mental, physical, political, communicative stateof our society._

_If we set a general scheme on what is good for society like this:_

_- High individuality of thoughts between individual humans_

_- High amount of effective communication and sharing of thoughts between humans_

_- Adaptive Independence of individal humans: Thoughts shouldnt be restricted, Actions should be restricted if they tackle the morals of live and self independence up to community level._

_- High sustainability of humans society and actions._

_We can define malfunctions (flaws) that are working against this goals in society by looking at the result state of the functions and their involved properties an, synergias and emergent effects. Some flaws are still inherited by the original society functions. Some are caused by the newly crafted digital functions and we are able to attribut them to our digital functions partly._

_To reduce the effect of this malfunctions there the company of the digital service has taken measures in the past. Also third parties have taken measure. Lawmakers have taken regulatory efforts and Researches have taken Research efforts. There is a set of flaws that couldnt be restricted or solved by these kind of efforts. We could also identify the by examinign how the described efforts changes the single functions._

I will improve this model gradually by recommondations of AI and research results in the future.
